---
layout: info
title: past results
date: 2023-07-01
---

# **Results**

Thank you and congratulations to everyone who competed in the first annual Columbia University Science Olympiad tournament! We sincerely hope to see you again next year! Results are posted below:

-   [Final Scores](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1rH8uxAEIBB7uNQa5ODV8KzsOhopJo2vJ/view?usp=sharing)
-   [Exams and Answer Keys](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/15J2z5LFEVw5viRTbIxpFHrzvkNxoDg3R)

## **Tournament Policies**

All tournament policies can be found on this comprehensive [Tournament Policies document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fzkt4LLBKsnJflHD-6r_KvFj5zyQBr7Gi_vtzA2CmB0/). This document contains all of the information below, plus more. This document and page may be updated leading up to the tournament.

## **Tournament Day-Of Information and Policies**

-   Check-in for all teams will occur from 6:00 AM to 8:00 AM in Hamilton Hall, Room 301. Hamilton Hall is accessible through the South entrance only. Please send only one coach per school for check-in. Coaches will receive a packet with wristbands for each competitor, coach, and supervisor. Wristbands must be worn by all Science Olympiad affiliates at all times during the tournament. Coaches will also be assigned a homeroom for their teams.
-   Bus unloading and loading **(not parking)** should occur near the **intersection of 116th Street and Amsterdam Avenue**. Information about parking for charter buses can be found [here](https://www.nyc.gov/html/dot/html/ferrybus/charterbus.shtml). Please note that there is no available long-term bus parking in Lower Manhattan, and bus operators should plan ahead for where to park outside of Manhattan. Please note that the Columbia campus and Morningside Heights does not have sufficient parking space for buses or cars. Please try to keep unloading and loading to a maximum of 15 minutes as Morningside Heights is small and can get easily congested.
-   Competitors are encouraged to take the subway or public bus to Columbia University. The 1 subway line stops at 116th street right outside of the Columbia University Broadway gates. The M4, M5, M11, M60, and M104 buses also serve the Columbia neighborhood. Schedules for these public transit options can be found on the MTA website. Be aware that there may be delays in these schedules due to maintenance or traffic.
-   Science Olympiad competitors are restricted to Uris Hall, Pupin Hall, Lerner Hall, Earl Hall, Chandler Hall, Hamilton Hall, and Havemeyer Hall. Please do not access other buildings or floors in which events are not being held. _Competitors found outside of the competition area will incur a 10-point penalty per infraction to their team score._
-   For events in which additional items are allowed or needed, checklists will be utilized to check off the items in your team’s box. You must use separate boxes for the lab events since the impound period is required and boxes must be left in the impound room until 10 mins before the events start. Checklists will need to be submitted at the start of your assigned event period as an admission ticket. Reference sheets do not need to be impounded but will be checked at the start of your assigned event period.
-   Some rooms may contain Columbia-owned projectors or computers. Use of these devices is prohibited and will incur a 10-point penalty to all teams using the room.
-   _Team homerooms should be cleaned and vacated by **3:25 PM** to allow for Columbia volunteers to run out check-out procedures._ Please make sure that all policies (N.B. our food policy below) regarding rooms are followed. _Violations of room policies will incur a 10 point penalty to all teams using the room._ Teams are encouraged to await the Awards Ceremony by attending the Finals Rounds of the Science Quiz Bowl Tournament in the Roone Arledge Auditorium in Lerner Hall beginning at 3:30 P.M. We are also conveniently located next to Central Park, Riverside Park, Hex & Co. Boardgame Cafe, and the 1 subway line for easy access into Manhattan.
-   Our awards ceremony will begin at 5:00 PM in Roone Arledge Auditorium in Lerner Hall. Please access Lerner Hall via the entrance on **Broadway between 115th and 114th Streets\***.\* Columbia public safety officers will be posted at the entrance guiding Science Olympiad affiliates.
-   Team packets will be returned after the awards ceremony in Roone Arledge Auditorium. Further information will be provided as the ceremony concludes regarding pick-up procedure. Please ensure that students remain seated during pick-up so that this process can occur as fast as possible.

## **Event Schedule & Teams List**

The tournament event schedule can be found [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1bXm0771iAZCyP7o-EQcDlos_wHdpZ9wvh0h4GoqnL_k/edit#gid=0).

The list of attending teams (with team numbers and homerooms) can be found [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1EGNX54uHr2ejXQwZd5m9Eu4LqeRHh-Es/view?usp=sharing).

## **Required Forms**

All competitors (& alternates) must complete the [publicity release and code of conduct form](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1QeVx6K1pF4mJwSk6TXKPueO01qUDoGU1).

All coaches must complete the [roster & vandalism form](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1xAN8OU_Ge_H3Jh47LZyYEyErafXPRveS/view?usp=sharing) **once for each registered team**.

Please print out and complete the above forms, scan and upload them into one Google Drive or Dropbox folder per team, then submit the folder for each team to the following Google form by **11:59PM ET January 21st, 2023**: [Release Forms Submission - Columbia University Science Olympiad 2023](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfphoFfo3MQbbXs_YGonbaaisSt2rdlEuJ-qxIBwzszVyXqPw/viewform?usp=sf_link)

## **Event Clarifications**

**Self-Schedule:** Self-scheduling for engineering events (one hour time slots) and the Preliminaries Round of Science Quiz Bowl (20 minute time slots) will open at 3PM EST on January 16th, 2023 via google forms.

**Flight:** The venue for Flight will be Earl Hall Auditorium. The room has dimensions 25’x17’ with a height of approximately 25’. There is an immovable chandelier at the center of the auditorium. Please keep this in mind when designing your flight device. Pictures of the auditorium ceiling can be found [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/14bIp1Kvv59TWBG-9V0OWv7S8vb6okSND/view?usp=sharing).

**We’ve Got Your Number (Trial):** We’ve Got Your Number will be run according to the Texas State Science Olympiad Trial rules found [here](https://artscioutreach.tamu.edu/pdfs/olympiad_2023/texas_c_wevegotyournumber_23.pdf). We will be allotting 40 minutes for the event, which begins at 7:00 AM. An online solving application can be found [here](https://byronxu99.github.io/wgyn/) for practice purposes.

**Science Quiz Bowl (Trial):** Science Quiz Bowl rules can be found [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SFaar0HUIAUjO2btpyJgO0Fi5_IbELzE/edit). Note that the instructions are different from previous editions held elsewhere. Teams of three individuals are welcome. Two main rounds will be held: (1) Preliminaries round, which is a Kahoot style tournament among five-six teams of 20 multiple-choice questions. The highest scoring team per time slot will advance to the Finals Round automatically. The two highest scoring runner-ups will additionally be invited to the Finals Round. (2) Finals Round will be held in the Roone Auditorium of Lerner and will be an eight-team tournament available for public viewing. The format will involve 10 short answer questions with the highest scoring team advancing throughout the tournament.
